Few times ago someone sent me a Microsoft PowerPoint file. Unluckly I have
uninstalled OpenOffice from my GNU/Linux partition since I rarely used it
and I needed room. Anyway I took a look inside the monster (I think the
D0CF11E Microsoft format is a monster) and found PNG files embedded and text
(so I've understood what's inside, more or less, i.e. what should appear).

The point is that these PNG were funny, but strange... In the hex dump
I noticed GIF89 headers too, so... where are these GIFs? Inside the PNGs!!
Incredible. So a silly thing: an image inside an image, just because
Microsoft does not know that PNG is static, and MNG is for animation...
or better: it is not interested in these details.

The PNG chunk name that embeds the ORIGINAL Gif image is msOG. A search
in Internet gave me a patch for OpenOffice (if I remember well)
that allows this software to handle Microsoft-poisoned PNG files and show
the animated GIF instead of the static PNG.

The patch does this: if the msOG chunk exists, load the embedded gif
(and so ignore the PNG containing the Gif). That's all.

Why such a silly microsofterous stuff? Maybe to avoid studying and
implementing MNG? It would have been far easier to embed the Gif
directly, instead of converting to a "poisoned" PNG! The reason behind
this choice can not be smart (copyright issues about Gif still apply
since the Gif is embedded! so ...)... could it be "political"? In fact
non Microsoft softwares that do not understand the msOG chunk will show
static images, while Microsoft softwares will show the animation, and
unknowledged users will say Microsoft is better ... ?

Anyway...

FIGHT AGAINST THE msOG CHUNK IN THE PNG FILES!!

The Perl script inside the bin/ folder extracts the Gif from the msOG
chunk. The usage is simply:

pnggif.pl FILEA.png [FILEB.gif]

If the second argument is not given, the name of the destination file
will be "FILEA.png.gif", that looks ugly but works fine on every smart
enough operating system.

Good usage.

tak3z0u 2008/02/25
